yo what up so I'm currently employed as
both a teacher and a student very
different capacities this is my
girlfriend Melissa who for the first
time of her life has become like a
schoolteacher here in China for the last
couple of months she's been teaching
children we live in China it's a very
unusual part of China we're surrounded
by palm trees and tropical fruit that's
a pomelo approximately the size of my
head
um oh here's one that's open to you know
right yeah we're surrounded
listen plan Russia's surrounded by giant
tropical fruit and just outside the
window there are palm trees we're on the
border between yin Anna and Myanmar so
culturally ethnically linguistically
part of China fascinating beautiful book
but she's been she's been teaching
children here and I want to make a video
talking about motivation motivation in
education and learning for myself as an
autodidact in a university context in
learning languages in life one of the
things that put this on my mind was
actually seeing a video from vegan gains
vegan gains talking of motivation in
weight loss and weight lifting fitness
and made me reflect on how in some ways
motivation in language learning is
similar and in some ways it's different
for myself personally a lot of my life
I've been a very mission based learner
my motivation has been linked to a
definite sense of a defined mission of
outcomes I was pursuing and is true when
I compare myself to other students or on
a job and job setting other people who
are working with me my very high levels
of motivation it almost seems like a
superpower you know it seemed like I was
doing so much more than the people
around me who were not motivated now
whether it's from a teacher's standpoint
or from a student standpoint I think
there is a bit of a danger here
motivation becomes fetishized and
exaggerated in its significance as this
kind of meta virtue the virtue of all
virtues of a virtue that that's the
basis for all other virtues for one
thing because it's not so safe or easy
for us to talk about differences in
intelligence aptitude even preparation
you know why is one student better than
another well maybe one student has sober
parents who are themselves school
teachers who've really taught them how
the system works and teach them how to
study and help them with what they're
doing at home and another student has
parents who are angry alcoholics who
hate the education system and don't help
them this way you know there are
differences like that that are not safe
to talk about and what is safe to talk
about from the educators perspective and
I think even from students talking about
themselves what's safe to talk about is
motivation people can people can riff on
this without without any danger of
offending other people but it's really
easy to kind of sort students in your
own mind or even to explain to yourself
while you perform well in some context
and on others in terms of motivation say
oh this this student isn't really very
motivated this other student was super
motivated so we did well see it this way
and again it I think I think that's true
when you look back in your own life it's
really easy to say oh well I wasn't
motivated at this time for this reason
either thinking could be the triana
versus every matter could be always busy
with my ex-boyfriend Ursula you know
there were other things in your mind
there were other things you were doing
where you can perceive your own
performance purely in terms of
motivation yeah I'm from a teacher's
perspective you can pick out students
like oh this work is performing better
because he's more motivated or this one
isn't because his parents just wanted to
be here right right right right the
parents want to be here in the child
doesn't or something yeah yeah anyway
whether it's in an adult workplace
situation or children or university
context it's really easy for motivation
to take on this there's great importance
without us maybe thinking too precisely
about what motivation is and in this
video that's exactly what I want to talk
about is precisely what vision is and
the way different types of motivation
shape what you're doing now I think
about human nature and the mind a lot in
terms of instinct she's a difference to
myself and the vast majority of
philosophers have published on these
things you know well I think one of
these strongest motivations for human
beings is fear and you can be motivated
to learn by fear so I want to give two
examples my own life I don't know I may
have mentioned one of these to you we
one of the examples when I was living in
Laos during a certain period I lived in
Laos for two and a half years but when I
was living in the capital city of Laos I
had a very real very pragmatic fear that
at any
could be taken over to the side of the
road by corrupt police officers or
corrupt army officials and it could
might not be in this other but they once
they came to my house to came to my
bedroom so you could be interrogated by
the police or army official than any
time in lotion and most likely they'd be
trying to just get money out of you you
know they were trying to accuse you
something you know it wouldn't be a
sincere interrogation now so you say
this is not a ludicrous fear or
something other white people living in
Laos at that time could also talk well
no the vast majority of white people
living in those conditions didn't the
best manner of people didn't respond to
it that way but for me that provided an
impetus that provided a groaning and
fear of I have to be ready to defend
myself in in a legal sense of you know
like give a defense of my character or
what I'm here what I'm doing at any time
at any time I could be taken over and
interrogated any time I could be
extorted that's really what it's trying
to extort my fee by men in uniform and I
have to be able to talk a good game
so that is a fear-based motivation was
very real but believe me I was
surrounded by the white people living
who didn't didn't respond to it that way
at all some of them responded by just
paying bribes or you know I mean I've
had people at different different
strategies
whatever the series were I remember one
woman and she probably wouldn't have
gotten away with it she was a white
woman she had a lotion boyfriend and
whenever policemen or soldiers tried to
interrogate her questions way she just
looked straight ahead ignored them and
drove away or walked away and again I
think you know I think it is just
because she was old she's a woman she
was a white woman they didn't just
pounce on or handcuff or beat her or
whatever you know like you can't you
can't do that she was she was living
there for a couple of years you know
this you know don't actually actually
see for this advice like okay so I think
she did give news I think she gave new
arrivals that advice but I was a little
bit too old in the game but I was
leaning her like dude what what are you
yeah yeah but also for me like if this
is my home I was living there
permanently for my you know yeah if
you're just a tourist or something
that's different but you know come on
this is this is my hood
this is my hood who the are you you
know if you're gonna Tara gate me I've
gotta stand up so yeah this is my home
I'm not from anywhere else and that time
that was really true I didn't have a
home back in Canada or anywhere else
anyway so that is an example and that
that fear-based pressure and you know it
doesn't mean I'm wake up in the morning
and I'm trembling in fear that is a
powerful motivation and I did really
learn lotion like ten times faster than
the other white people around me yes
there were other inequalities involved
there inequalities of intelligence and
preparation or what have you but I had
no formal education in any of this stuff
I mean Canada I'd never studied
linguistics at that time I have now you
know now I studied linguistics many
years later you know I had no formal
education nothing I mean there was
nothing I have political science degree
there was nothing at the only language
I'd formally studied at that point
French and German you know I mean but
you know I was able to do it so another
you know kind of for me dramatic more
short-term example of fear based
learning I was sharing an apartment with
my ex-wife in England so we were living
in England this is when we were in our
own apartment not before we had a house
we shared with another person sharing
the rents on the house
this is been in a small apartment and
there was a date on the calendar and at
first I didn't know the date cuz I
didn't bought the airplane tickets yet
and then I knew the exact date we bought
it but there was a date coming up when I
was gonna have to fly to Cambodia and I
knew I'd been to Cambodia before short
term but I'd never lived there before
like permanently and I knew exactly what
I was gonna have to deal with executives
gonna have to struggle with when I got
to Cambodia so in terms of its like
alright I'm gonna have to get off the
airplane I'm gonna have no cellular
phone I'd never owned a cellular phone
up until age 36 or something I'm gonna
have no bank account all the money in
the world I have is gonna be in my boot
or hidden in different pockets and Phnom
Penh at that time again this is not
hysteria it was a city where people get
hold up at gunpoint in the streets and I
myself knew two different white people
who were held at gunpoint it's not like
not like I was making a survey you know
you know and actually from the from the
rooftop of my apartment building not
infrequently you'd hear gunshots going
off you know pea Phnom Penh was the real
deal at that time was a third world
dangerous city in transition and again
keep in mind
naturally criminals are gonna single out
someone who's white Western and looks
wealthy from their perspective what are
you gonna do say to the criminals why
don't you guys focus your energy on on
on robbing the indigent poor why would
you focused on robbing your fellow
Cambodians or farmers or homeless people
no obviously they're gonna Rob somebody
who looks like me whether whether I'm
rich or broke you can't blame them you
know you're you're a target scribe and
no but apart from the crime and
dangerous but there was just the
difficulty where was like I'm gonna get
off this airplane I'm gonna be on the
streets of pnom pen and I'm gonna have
to find an apartment to run I'm gonna
have to find out landlord you know in
for out of a hotel room and I did
already have a job lined up I did have a
job that's you know what I was going at
that time I was gonna start this this
job in Cambodia but I knew exactly how
tough that challenge was and how high
and I had a couple of weeks in that
apartment in in England and I was waking
up as early as I could wake up and
working as hard as I could possibly work
you know somewhere it's just when you're
when you're nervous and scared as I
think it is I think it is really
appropriate so I would fear in this
context fear isn't motivation somedays I
woke up at 6:30 a.m.
somedays I probably worked up at woke up
at 5:30 a.m. you know but like I was
waking up full of nervous energy and
pouring as much you know energies that
possibly could into learning learning
basic Cambodian which is an incredibly
difficult language to learn by the way
and I mean I remember once so I think
it's the only time my life when I've
wept just due to stress where I broke
down weeping and I wasn't like you know
it wasn't sad it wasn't upset but I was
just so pushing myself to the limit
again not even in terms of the number of
hours in the day I was studying but the
intensity of it so I mean again that was
fear as the motivation for learning and
it will again not an abstract not
unreasonable fear I'd been to pnom Penn
I knew exactly what it was putting
himself into and I was right and when I
got there I mean that was my situation I
had no bank account my money and
but-- and you know walk those streets
and I did I did find a landlord you know
while I was staying in a hotel you know
I had to go around and you know
literally like walk the streets of the
Phnom Penh and look for little signs up
saying for rent saying for rent in
Cambodian and talk to the landlord in
Cambodian that's that's what that
challenge is right and you're also
trying to evaluate like is this landlord
gonna rob let's well it's well yeah as
you gonna ripped me off on the price but
also am I gonna move in here and then
one one then one day all my stuff is
still one because it's the most likely
person to rob you as your own landlord
or your landlord has his brother come
over something you know ass you really
got you got a judge anyway so fear as a
motivation I think is normally left out
of the discussion these things and it's
it's probably the single most intense
and effective motivation probably today
you can see that with people like war
refugees or other people who are
actually I do remember once seeing in a
documentary about a guy in a refugee
camp who taught himself English in only
a few months and this kind of thing you
know you do sometimes see see evidence
of that okay so so for me that's a
separate heading I think so I think
fear-based movies I had four types of
motivation and one's have mentioned this
video without we get to them see I think
that's authority based motivation or you
could say authoritarianism I think that
is different and some people respond to
that really positively some don't and
some respond to pause look for some
subjects but not others right yeah so
when I was a kid when I was younger I
really I mean a teenager I really
noticed that I got more work done if I
was sitting in a library no no we're not
even using the books you know I mean
like just using the book I brought with
me you know but that sitting in a
library was more effective than sitting
in my own desk you know and I was aware
well it's just the kind of authoritarian
Ambulance of the setting you know and
I'm getting more word and that's not
true of me today I think for me as a
fully grown adult I get exactly the same
amount of work done at my desk and at
the library you know I mean but sure
ages 16 to 22 I think that was really
true of me that you know just putting
yourself in that
putting some in library and I think
we're a lot of people if you think about
what you get out of organized education
at a university in many ways it's not
much it's like okay so here's a reading
list like you know here's a photocopied
syllabus or reading list for you to go
home and and work with there are the
books and here's the essay you're
supposed to write you don't need a
professor you don't need a classroom to
do that you could just give yourself for
reading whether you get download one off
the internet go to the library of the
work for a lot of people
the main thing they're getting out of
the university context is motivation in
exactly that sense the authoritarian
motivation and indeed you know do
teachers beat students I think that's
part of it too I think it's part of a
belief in authoritarian motivation again
I think it's both the case that some
people will respond more positive out
than others and it also really depends
on the subject matter like maybe you
can't learn math that way but you can
learn you maybe respond positive with
some other topic you know the type of
learning yeah so I think I think that's
a tricky one but I would mention I think
just as with fear people that need to
learn to embrace fear that fear is an
instinct we all live with you know what
I mean like not to demonize it not to do
this not to do that
I think likewise you can learn to have a
kind of positive attitude towards those
that authoritarian side of your own
nature if you have it to some extent and
you know you can put yourself in that
setting probably if you're watching this
in a major city even if you're not a
university student you can choose to go
and do your work in university library
you know you can pay the five bucks for
the membership card I mean most
universities are like that you know
they'll allow in Outsiders under certain
circumstances you can put yourself in an
archives or a university setting to get
worked on and I got my best work done at
this Michigan Law Library is beautiful
and she was not not a law student she
wasn't studying law talking about the
authoritarian atmosphere and the rule
was to be completely silent and
that really benefitted me you know
certain there was a the undergraduate
library was just too loved well I think
I mean I think one of these sure her
university education was at a famous
university in the States but you had all
class sizes that were too big when you
have smaller class sizes and one of the
things that motivates students is the
feeling that they will let the professor
down so I don't know if you ever were
close enough to a professor to feel that
way well it's like if I don't do my best
work on that so again the professor
isn't gonna beat you but I'll be letting
the professor down that can be a
powerful motivator also so for myself
the main for motivation in my life has
been why I called mission based learning
and I generally I don't really encourage
people to use this this mode of learning
was mode of motivation for me it's much
more tragic than it is well it's more
tragic than there's anything else for me
I'm someone who had really really high
really really intense levels of
motivation for learning languages
studying history studying politics but
in each case it's linked to a particular
mission a particular outcome I'm in
pursuit of so you know I'm not I'm not
studying Korean at Jib way for the good
of my health or something you know I'm
really on this mission where there's a
vision of a career and humanitarian
motives and research motives and
outcomes I'm pursuing and very often I
seem to be it does seem like a
superpower it seems like I'm getting so
much more done and learning so much more
so much faster than all the other people
around me but the flipside of that is
then when the mission comes to an end
and most of these missions for me ended
in failure where I had to stop learning
Cree then it's a crushing disappointment
it's it brings about terrible Sophia
suffering it's a real personal tragedy
it's a personal tragedy that first and
foremost impacts me much more and much
more deeply than for example the death
of my own father which really didn't
impact me that much you know I regard
death as part of life you know it
doesn't come as a shock and my father
died of natural causes at a very old age
that's not very shocking I mean the
death of my various grandparents like
why is it's like well did you think they
live forever you know it's not not that
tragic but sure when I've put in
hundreds of hours of intense effort to
try to memorize the names of the months
in creve for example there are 12 months
of the year
in Creole really long words you're
trying to do basic math and create learn
the numbers you know every language has
this learning numbers and the months and
the seasons and a lot of vocabulary just
to get started in language and then boom
the the mission is over I'm never gonna
use this again and I look back on it
almost feels like brain damage you know
it's not only that I don't have
something positive this it looks like
negative in my life now I've sunk all
this effort in and really like a part of
my brain capacity into this and now it's
over and I'm never gonna be able to use
it again for me that's really tragic and
really harrowing and I've been through
it again and again and again now I think
the stereotypical University student
we've just been reading a lot about this
moderately lacks this form of motivation
a stereotypical I think it's probably
the majority of stereotypical University
student United States in Canada doesn't
know what they want to study doesn't
know why they're there they will often
openly say they're just having to look
around at different options they're
considering different subjects that -
they're trying to find what fits trying
to find what they like trying to find
what motivates this kind of thing I
appreciate their honesty it's fine
but that is completely antithetical to
the type of mission based motivation I'm
talking about right and for me again the
missions whether it was learning
Cambodian or learning lotion or learning
poly this is a long series of languages
very clear very powerful link to
humanitarian work research real-world
outcomes yeah and not just a credential
right oh yeah but for me none of them
none of them are only two acronyms are
actually ironically sure yeah yeah so
mission based motivation I've got to say
if you look at a snapshot of it and a
lot of people who met me in each of
those fields they found it really
inspiring to meet me and I'm sorry I'm
not boasting I'm not exactly but I met
people okay so for example I'd meet
someone with a PhD someone who was a
professor or an archivist you know did
not always professor soon as they work
in the library or archives and they'll
be so inspired to meet me because the
people they were dealing with were
always people who either had no
motivation or had this kind of negative
dragging their ass motivation you know
was like who
you just got to do this thing to get
through my MA I don't really want to
assemble thing like even if they were
dealing with MA and PhD students and
then they meet me I wasn't in a ph.d
program but I was so positive motivated
that was really making progress and so a
lot of those people they really lit up
when they met me and I'd be such a
contrast to the other students or other
researchers they dealt with like even
with journalists you can deal with
journalists urges like I'm on this
assignment seriously I met journals of
that in Cambodia so some newspaper had
paid for their airplane ticket to fly
but they're like oh I don't even know
why I have to cover this court case in
Cambodia I mean you know nobody cares
it's natural you can relate to it so
having that motivation in a lot of ways
in my life as a positive thing and I did
get a huge amount done in all those
languages in a relatively short span of
time but the flip side is the the soro
the sense of personal tragedy I want to
include this in the video but look like
I wept when I gave away my lotion
dictionary it's not because the
dictionary was worth a lot of money but
I remember when I gave because it's
everything it represented it's like well
right that's two and a half years of
hard work and sometimes unbelievably
hard work you know with no electricity
under a mosquito net it wasn't like that
in the capital city but at when I was
doing humanitarian work you know living
in these really extreme rugged
conditions and now I'm giving this book
away and I'm never gonna use this
language again like Laos and unless I go
to the suburbs of Paris who's even going
to speak loshon with me you know what I
mean we saw one lotion guy we were good
I couldn't do it I couldn't snap back
into language that quickly because I've
been speaking three other way I was
speaking French and Chinese and Thai
anyway yeah so whatever within that
month I've been speaking three or four
there languages so anyway but yeah oh
yeah yeah I just said a couple words to
him in loud then he was all excited
willing to speak to be in motion but I
couldn't I couldn't snap back that
question anyway actually and after we
walked away from him then already you
was coming back to me anyway look when I
gave away that that dictionary I mean
that that whole scenario was a really
deep personal tragedy for me the end of
that mission that had motivated me so
much
and I was surrounded by people who
totally couldn't comprehend it and
didn't care you know see you sir what
kind of white people around you there I
was in Thailand and then I went up to
China to you now at that time so you
know so the average white person who's
either on vacation in Thailand or
retired in Thailand or even who has some
kind of job as an ESL teacher these are
just people enjoying life they have none
of that humanitarian motivation none of
that research motivation and they don't
they don't get it you know what I mean
now I think also as a white person in
Canada when I had the crushing blow of
having to stop studying Korean a jib way
I'm surrounded by white people just
don't go there like you know what's the
problem you know I go you should get a
job in marketing yes oh you should you
should get a job in real estate
you'll be great and it's like dude this
you know do you have any idea what's
just happened in the last couple years
of my life like what I've gone through
what I've lost
and what position I'm in now in terms of
my own lost potential and my own sense
of what lost brain tissue so you know
that's a know but for me as a large self
I mean nobody ever says that to me like
maybe that's a gendered thing nobody
ever says you why do you think you're
special you know so maybe I do a good
job of presenting here's why I'm special
yeah sure sure
defensive and or offensive about it yeah
so the fourth I don't know if we gone
through I think we've gone through all
four the fourth and final type of mode
of learning and motivation for learning
I want to mention there's a quote that's
cool like y'all know you want you can
eat noodles on camera - yeah you got you
got those young you need on camera look
you know the fourth and final tip I
wanted to mention is that from this
comment from Francis Bacon Francis Bacon
is a philosopher and really his most
important work is the Novum organum
which is very rarely read people don't
read that book I don't know why it is
his most important work of philosophy
but in and he says the the ideal state
of mind for learning is one that
combines playfulness and seriousness
this is a this is a we are
simultaneously being very playful and
very serious as an interesting comment I
think a lot of people do talk about play
and playfulness and learning but that's
actually a really strange tightrope to
walk you know what I mean if you think
about because I mean play is one thing
but if you don't have a very specific
kind of motivation play is just play and
it's not really learning you know what I
mean yeah there are elements of play and
language learning and language teaching
but I mean that's maybe the most rare
and difficult to sustain of attitudes
you know I mean well even for me with
Chinese you don't see me playing a lot
of games with Chinese you don't see me
having a lot of fun learning Chinese and
now advanced enough you know what I mean
whether it's Chinese or lotion or crea I
can sit and I can cut up some words on a
little piece of paper and throw them on
the floor and play some kind of game or
something but it's it's tough and it's
rare I mean Francis Bacon was mostly
thinking about the sciences of trying to
keep a playful yeah okay
trying to keep it okay well you okay but
you've just been doing that how
successful are you with play and
learning because I think like with your
students I would say most of the time
when it's play it's just play so I look
for me I don't know but maybe I'm just
the wrong person to speak on that but I
think that's actually a really difficult
it's kind of easy to plan that for for
little kids even older as old as you
know as young as like teenage age like
how do you play so the four types of
uncover your mission based learning fear
motivated learning which may be really
overlooked the role of authoritarian
even if it's just the atmosphere of
authority like being in a library in
learning and then this kind of question
for me opening question of play play
based learning and so I've mentioned
this to you recently back when I was
studying Korean a jib way especially
when we worked with some other languages
too yeah when I work with poly and so I
tried to get in touch with video game
programmers and
talked to several saying why can't we
have software that allows people to at
least practice these languages maybe not
completely educational so far why can't
we translate Pokemon into Kriya Ojibwe
li you know what card based game so that
at least the words are there and being
practiced and so on can't we do
something along these lines so I have
taken an interest in play based language
education and the role of play and at
least practicing vocabulary and so on
but it's and there is goddamn little out
there there is very little even for a
language like Japanese I really searched
through all the software for a learning
Japanese education I found nothing well
film go next to nothing but Chinese says
Chinese has a billion speakers and
probably a hundred million people
learning it because there's so many
people in the West and even in other
countries in Asia you know in Korea and
so on and there is next to nothing so it
is weird maybe that'll make a comeback
but right now the role of play and
learning obviously video games just one
example
he needs wooden blocks for all I care
there all kinds of ways to incorporate
play into learning
it seems to be it seems to be really
really waning right now really weak
Chinese educational walks so my basic
warning in this video it's funny
motivation is perceived as this kind of
meta virtue as what separates good
students from bad students and even what
separates good people from bad people
you know why is he good person but
because of how he's motivated you know
like oh yes he has bad motives he has
bad intentions we thinking about it in
in this way but I think moto vation runs
deep everyone knows that and I do think
when you're talking about like what
motivated me to learn the Lao language
why did I make so much progress really
in one year with leverage I got up to a
level Lao was the only language I've
learned where I couldn't make jokes that
really made people laugh I would be able
to spontaneously make original jokes and
Lao people would really break a lot they
really appreciated my sense of humor I'm
not at that level in Chinese still to
this day I don't think I've once told an
original joke in Chinese that made
people why not before once about very
different very different time in my life
and very different language I don't know
I never I never made up in the original
jokes and we bought strawberries once
and you told them like that that I'm
crazy it's not a problem for me it was a
problem for you right you're right
you're right right okay so that I made a
joke with some strawberry vendors that
that even though I'm stupid it's not
really my problem it's their problem
right yeah that that may be the only
joke I made in Chinese that made people
and they did laughs that's right we had
a whole group of people and they laughed
yeah I said yeah I'm stupid but but it's
not my problem like I'm not embarrassed
to admit you that I'm stupid
you know you're the ones who have to
figure out how many kilograms of
strawberries I'm buying here not me so
if I'm stupid it's your problem yeah
okay great so thanks my girlfriend saved
know that I made one joke one joke ever
in Chinese that afterwards I explained
to you what the why everyone was
laughing right but look motivation runs
deep it runs all the way deep and for me
the the the extremely high levels of
motivation I had whether I was cracking
the books during that short period of
time with Cambodian in that apartment or
over long periods of time thing which is
like palette lotion which I had no
teacher in I had no teacher I had no
help I had no encouragement I had no
textbooks and to make my own textbooks
for some of those languages being super
highly motivated for some of these
things also was linked to a tremendously
deep soul destroying personal tragedy
that many people can't relate to I mean
that that is kind of the ongoing tragedy
of my life as much as I've injured
suffering under other headings with the
death of my father being separated from
my daughter which is incredibly
harrowing like you say to people
routinely look actually the real
defining tragedy my life is higher
education in Canada the university
system and these things so yeah that's
my judgment on that's my judgment on
motivation as a highly motivated out of
Didact for the most part when I talk to
people about it I warned them against it
because I'm I warned them about the real
drawbacks the real extent to which your
own personal sorrow and suffering is
involved if you if you take this path
all right